[Music]
my journey to coming here today started
in 1974 that's me with the funny gloves
I was 17 and going on a peace walk what
I didn't know though was most of those
people standing there with me were Muniz
and within a week I had come to believe
that the second coming of Christ had
occurred that it was Sun Myung Moon and
that I had been specially chosen and
prepared by God to be his disciple now
as cool as that sounds my family was not
that thrilled with this and they tried
everything they could to get me out of
there there was a Underground Railroad
of sorts that was going on during those
years maybe some of you remember it they
were called deprogrammers and after
about five long years my family had me
to program and I then became into
programmer I started going out on cases
and after about five years of doing this
I was arrested for kidnapping most of
the cases I went out on were called
involuntary what happened was that the
family had to get their loved ones some
safe place somehow and so they took them
to some safe place and we would come in
and talk to them usually for about a
week and so after this happened I
decided it was a good time to turn my
back on this work and about 20 years
went by and there was a burning question
though that would not leave me and that
was how did this happen to me and in
fact what did happen to my brain because
something did and so I decided to write
a book a memoir about this decade of my
life and toward the end of writing that
book there was a documentary that
out it was on Jonestown and it had a
chilling effect on me these are the dead
in Jonestown about 900 people died that
day most of them taking their own lives
women gave poison to their babies and
watched foam come from their mouths as
they died the top picture is a group of
monies that have been blessed by their
Messiah their mates were chosen for them
the bottom picture is Hitler Youth this
is the leg of a suicide bomber the thing
I had to admit to myself with great
repulsion was that I get it I understand
how this could happen I understand how
someone's brain how someone's mind can
come to the place where it makes sense
in fact it would be wrong when your
brain is working like that not to try to
save the world
through genocide and so how what is this
what how does this work and what I came
how I come to view what happened to me
is a viral mimetic infection for those
of you who aren't familiar with mimetics
a meme has been defined as an idea that
replicates in the human brain and moves
from brain to brain like a virus much
like a virus the way a virus works is
it's most it can infect and do the most
damage to someone who has a no
compromised immune system right in 1974
I was young I was naive and I was pretty
lost in my world I was really idealistic
these easy ideas to complex questions
are very appealing when you are
emotionally vulnerable what happens is
that circular logic takes over moon is
one with God God is going to fix all the
problems in the world all I have to do
is humbly follow because God is going to
stop war and hunger all these things I
wanted
do all I have to do is humbly follow was
after all God's Mossad he's gonna fix
all this it becomes impenetrable and the
most dangerous part of this is that it
creates us and then right and wrong good
and evil and it makes anything possible
makes anything rationalize about and the
thing is though if you looked at my
brain during those years in the Moonies
neuroscience is expanding exponentially
as Ray Kurzweil said yesterday science
is expanding or beginning to look inside
the brain and so if you looked at my
brain or any brain that's infected with
a viral mimetic infection like this and
compared it to well anyone in this room
or anyone who uses critical thinking on
a regular basis I am convinced it would
look very very different and that
strange as it may sound gives me hope
and the reason that gives me hope is
that the first thing is to admit that we
have a problem but it's a human problem
it's a scientific problem if you will it
happens in the human brain there's no
evil force out there to get us and so
this is something that through research
and education I believe that we can
solve and so the first step is to
realize that we can do this together and
that there is no us and them thank you
very much
[Applause]
[Music]